---
layout: default
published: true
---

# How to Use 
Once you have Recipe Schema installed, it is easy to start adding your recipes. Recipe Schema creates a new type of Posts, not shockingly called recipes. Multiple recipes can be inserted into a single Post and a single recipe can be in a bunch of different Posts. 

You need to create a Recipe before you can insert it into a Post. There are 3 different ways to create a new recipe:

## New Recipe

1.	Click on Recipes on the left hand side of the Wordpress Admin menu
1.	Click on **Add New** under the Recipes submenu
1.	Enter the Recipe, placing the appriopate sections in the right place.
1.	To select a thumbnail for the Recipe, set the Featured Image. This can also be done when you insert a recipe to a post.

## Import from an Existing Post

1.	Click on Recipes on the left hand side of the Wordpress Admin menu.
1.	Click on **Import from Post** under the Recipes submenu. 
1.	Select the Post that wish to Import a recipe from. You can filter out Posts that have already been Imported by clicking on **Hide Posts With Recipes**. You can also filter by Post Category and Search the Posts.
1.	The Post will be shown in a Textbox. Select the recipe text in the post and click the **Import** button. 
1.	The selected recipe will be Cut from the Post and the imported Recipe will inserted into the Post.
1.	Select different portions of the recipe and click the appropriate button below the Textbox. For example, select the recipe title and click the Title button. The title will be copied to the Title field further down the form.
1.	Continue designating the rest of the relevant information.
1.	Scroll down and double check that all of the information has been filled in correctly. Make sure you fill in the Source and URL for where you copied the recipe from. If the Directions or Ingredients had Section headers you will need to add these. Simply add a **=** at the beginging of the line of each header. 
1.	When you have finished, click **Save Changes**. You will see a preview of the recipe. You can click **Edit Recipe** if you need to make any changes.
1.	The Recipe is automatically Inserted into the Post.

## Import from Web

1.	Click on Recipes on the left hand side of the Wordpress Admin menu.
1.	Click on **Copy, Paste & Import** under the Recipes submenu, it will open a page with Textbox where you will paste the recipe you wish to import.
1.	Goto the website of the recipe you wish to import. Select and copy the text for the recipe, and paste it into the Textbox.
1.	Select different portions of the recipe and click the appropriate button below the Textbox. 
 * For example, select the recipe title and click the Title button. The title will be copied to the Title field further down the form.
1.	Continue designating the rest of the relevant information.
1.	Scroll down and double check that all of the information has been filled in correctly. Make sure you fill in the Source and URL for where you copied the recipe from.
 * if the Directions or Ingredients had Section headers you will need to add these. Simply add a "=" at the beginging of the line of each header.
1.	When you have finished, click Save Changes. You will see a preview of the recipe. You can click "Edit Recipe" if you need to make any changes. You can also edit the Post if needed.


## Insert a Recipe into a Post
Now that you have created a Recipe, you can insert it into any Post. A Recipe can be inserted into multiple Posts, and a Post can have multiple Recipes.
Here is how to do it:

1.	Click on **Posts** on the left hand side of the Wordpress Admin menu
1.	Select **Edit** on an existing Post you would like to insert a Recipe into
1.	Scroll down the page til you see the Recipe Schema box
1.	Begin type the title of the Recipe you would. The Title will autocomplete based upon the Recipes which have been entered. Select the Recipe you would like to insert.
1.	Repeat if you would like to add additional Recipes.
1.	The Featured Image for the Recipe will be shown next it. If there is nothing there, or if you want to change it, click **Change Image** and select an image.

By default all of the selected Recipes get added to the end of the Post. If you would like the recipes to be in the middle of the Post, you can use a shortcode. Add the shortcode **[recipes]** into the Post where you would like the Recipes to appear.